# Person Search Project

Person Search is can be seen as the combination of **Pedestrian Detection** and **Person Re-Identification**. 

In my work I tackled the challenge by splitting the task in those two separate steps, each of them solved using a different deep learning model architecture which was train separately. The ultimate goal of this project is the following: given a pedestrian image (associated with a known identity), find all the occurrences of that same person in each image frame, if present.

This result was achieved by aiming the first-stage detector model to get predict good bounding boxes around each pedestrian in each frame. Then, by cropping those pedestrians from the frames, we obtain a huge gallery of person images, which is fed into the second-stage embedder. The embedder model transforms each input image of a pedestrian, resized to fit a 128x256 pixel shape, into an explicit representation with size 2048. Those embeddings need to be similar, i.e. as close as possible in the embedding space, if representing the same person with lighting, scale, pose or perspective variations, and do be different if representing two different identities. 
This kind of task is commonly known as **Metric Learning**, which is especially succesful in Facial Recognition. The main challenge of Person Search, widely represented in PRW dataset, is the difficulty in characterizing identities because of the smaller unicity of features present in a cloting or person general aspact, from a distant perspective, with respect to faces. There are indeed some examples of people dressed in the same uniform, which are completely undistinguishable from one another especially then seen from behind. Another challange to overcome is to get the model actually focus on the person identity rather than the surrondings, like backgorund tales patterns from the paving or repetitive occlusions like fences or handrails. This struggle was partially solved by introducing a specific identity classifier on top of the embedder output (logits), which is only used at train time to get more informative gradients updating the embedder while not constraining it to a closed-world scenario, which would be useless in the application of a task such as People Search in real-world scenarios. 

> **_NOTE:_** This project is developed on Kaggle, using datasets loaded on Kaggle, so it requires an adaptation to be run locally.
